# 13 mag 2021 - Universal declaration of human rights

The **United Nations** is an international organization, designed to facilitate cohoperation in different fields, such as international laws, security, economic development, social progress, and human rights
This organization was founded after the end of WWWII, and it has an historical predecessor, the **league of nation**, which is internationally viewed as the forerunner of the United Nations.

After the WWII countries felt that a way had to be found to preserve the peace. In 1945 delegates from fifty nations gathered in San Francisco, determined to set up a new organization that would be really able to maintain the peace, and that would really help build a better world.
The main aim of the San Francisco conference was to produce a charter for a new organization that would be accetable to all countries. The process of writing this charter was monument, it took nearly months, from april to june. 
The most heated discussion regarded the right to vetal of the big five withing the security council. The UN is made up of different institution, and the security councile is one of the most important organs of this organization: it is made up of fifteen members: five are permanent, and the other ten members rotate. The five permanent (the big five) are United States, UK, France, China and Russia: they were the main powers after WWII, and for this reason they maintened that the role of preserving the peace fell most heavily on them.
The decision of the vetal right was taken with a qualified majority. Even thought this wasn't really democratic, it was still something to start with.

After the horrors of WWII all the nations were really motivated to find new strategies of cohoperation.

From the beginning to present days this organization has evolved: membership was left open to all peaceloving countries, and in fact today this organization is made up of 193 countries, almost the totality of the countries in the world.

This organization has evolved not only in terms of numbers of members, but also in terms of its fields of action. Among them we can include **Human Rights**, and the importance given by the UN to human rights is evidente from the founding charter, which was signed in San Francisco, and the from the **Universal Declaration of Human Rights**, which was signed in 1984 10th december.
This document is very important, because for the first time in history different nations worked together in this field to produce a common set of principles and rights. Basically all the nations didn't want history to repeat itself. They wanted to protect the whole world from future abuses like the ones that were carried out during WWII, in which millions of people were denied their basic rights, as human beings.

This declaration is made up of 30 articles

1. We are all born free and equal. We all have our own thoughts and ideas. We should all be treated in the same way.
1. These rights belong to everybody, whatever our differences.
1. We all have the right to life, and to live in freedom and safety.
1. Nobody has any right to make us a slave. We cannot make anyone else our slave.
1. Nobody has any right to hurt or torture us or treat us cruelly.
1. Everyone has the right to be protected by the law.
1. The law is the same for everyone. It must treat us all fairly.
1. We can all ask for the law to help us when we are not treated fairly.
1. Nobody has the right to put us in prison without a good reason, to keep us there or to send us away from our country.
1. If we are put on trial, this should be in public. The people who try us should not let anyone tell them what to do.
1. Nobody should be blamed for doing something until it has been proved. When people say we did a bad thing we have the right to show it is not true.
1. Nobody should try to harm our good name. Nobody has the right to come into our home, open our letters, or bother us, or our family, without a good reason.
1. We all have the right to go where we want to in our own country and to travel abroad as we wish.
1. If we are frightened of being badly treated in our own country, we all have the right to run away to another country to be safe.
1. We all have the right to belong to a country.
1. Every grown up has the right to marry and have a family if they want to. Men and women have the same rights when they are married, and when they are separated.
1. Everyone has the right to own things or share them. Nobody should take our things from us without a good reason.
1. We all have the right to believe in what we want to believe, to have a religion, or to change it if we wish.
1. We all have the right to make up our own minds, to think what we like, to say what we think, and to share our ideas with other people.
1. We all have the right to meet our friends and to work together in peace to defend our rights. Nobody can make us join a group if we don’t want to.
1. We all have the right to take part in the government of our country. Every grown up should be allowed to vote to choose their own leaders.
1. We all have the right to a home, enough money to live on and medical help if we are ill. Music, art, craft and sport are for everyone to enjoy.
1. Every grown up has the right to a job, to a fair wage for their work, and to join a trade union.
1. We all have the right to rest from work and to relax.
1. We all have the right to enough food, clothing, housing and health care. Mothers and children and people who are old, unemployed or disabled have the right to be cared for.
1. We all have the right to education, and to finish primary school, which should be free. We should be able to learn a career, or to make use of all our skills.
1. We all have the right to our own way of life, and to enjoy the good things that science and learning bring.
1. There must be proper order so we can all enjoy rights and freedoms in our own country and all over the world.
1. We have a duty to other people, and we should protect their rights and freedoms.
1. Nobody can take away these rights and freedoms from us.

The main **features** of these articles:

- human rights are universal and inalienable: they are universal since we are born with these rights, and every people posses these rights; they are inalienable since they cannot be taken away: you can't lose these rights
- they are indivisible: denial of one human rights inevitably empedes the enjoyment of others rigths: human rights are all equal in importance, they cannot be positioned in an hierarcical order.
- they are interdependent and interelated: together they contribute to a person's dignity, which cannot be reached if only one of these rigths is denied.

The UDHR has achieved the status of **customary international law**