# 2 feb 2021 - USA
* ==p. 173-175==

## Progressivism

**Progressivism**
It’s a new policy adopted by US by Theodore Roosevelt, based on a series of reforms on the social and economic spheres.

The position of the US during WWI was at the beginning of not intervening; they only took part in 1917: this allowed to US to gain economic superiority, since the costs of the war were different from the others countries.
In Fact in the end of the Great War US was one of the richest country of the world: this period will be called the Roaring Twenties, whose main characteristics are:
* There was an economic boom
* Red Scare: was the fear of socialism spread through US; a lot of political activist were seen as Communists sympathiser, and they were killed.
* Prohibition: It’s referred to a ban of the government, about production, importation and distribution of alcohol; there was a problem of alcohol addiction among the poor. This led to an illegal market of alcohol.
* Feeling of xenofobia spread among the people; previously the us followed an open door policy, but now we have a different approach with a series of restrictions on immigration, with the segregation of minority.

The economic boom of the twenties led to an excessive speculation, which led to the Wall Street crash of the 1929: it produced an strong economic crisis all around the world.

There was also an environmental disaster, the so called Dust Bowl, which is used to refer to a series of dust stores that took place in soma place in the us, following a period of drought.

After this period of crisis there was the period of the **New Deal**: it’s a series of reforms by Franklin Roosevelt: based on **Relief**, **Recovey** and **Reform**
1. Relief is related to the poor
2. Recovery of the economy
3. Reform of the financial system in order to prevent future crisis

## WWII

American factories received a new impulse from the Second World War. At first the United States maintained neutrality, following its policy of **isolationism**, but it joined the conflict in 1941. All resources were organised towards winning the war, including two thousand million dollars spent on the Manhattan Project, a research project to produce and test the first atomic bomb. Among the scientists working in the nuclear field was the Italian physicist Enrico Fermi (1901-54). The main assembly plant was built at Los Alamos, New Mexico.

After the WWII the USA emerged as one of the superpowers together with Russia.

# Influences of Modernism

* Technological innovation in 20th century:
  * introduction of electricity, which had a huge impact on life
  * improvement in mass transport
  * advent of the Radio, Cinema: thank to the radio people could reach informations more easily, and this produce a feeling of cohesion
  * the governments were aware of the power of this mass communication mean: it was an easier and wider propaganda

## Freud

Interpretation of dreams to understand our behaviour

## Jung

Introduced the concept of collective unconscious, which is a sort of virtual store where we can find al the archetypes and symbols that we inherited from generation to generation.
The role of the artist was to bring these archetypes to the surface.

## Nietzsche

He introduce the concept related to the objectivity of truth.
He questioned the objectivity of truth. There is no more an universal truth

In _Thus spoke Zarathrusta_ he said that 'God is dead'. He uses this expression to refer to the end of the beliefs of a cosmic figure that orders everything.

## Einstein

Albert Einstein's theory of relativity discarded the concepts of time and space: even time and space are subjective.

## William James

He was an american philosopher and he discussed the notion of the **stream of consciousness**. This is a psychic phenomenon referred to the flowing of thoughts, emotions, memories and feelings, that occurs in human mind.

## Henry Bergson

He introduced the concept of **duration**, to highlight the subjective dimension of time, because it is made by past, present and future that overload each other.
