# 28 gen 2021 - Britain and the First World War
* ==p. 158-159==

#### Britain at war

By September 1914 the German army had reached the River Marne in France, where a great battle stopped the German advance at the cost of many lives. When the British Secretary of State for War, Lord Kitchener, realised that the war was going to last a long time and that Britain would have to send a large army overseas, he appealed for volunteers, but it would take time to turn them into soldiers. Britain relied on these volunteers until 1916. The Empire made its contribution sending troops from the dominions as well as volunteers from Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Conscription was introduced in Britain in 1916. Women replaced men in their civilian jobs with reliability and competence, which contributed to bringing about women's suffrage.

#### The Easter Rising in Ireland

A major issue of British politics in the first two decades of the 20th century was the Irish Question. The term refers to the tragic events regarding the fight for Irish independence. In April 1916 there was a rebellion in Dublin, the so-called Easter Rising, due to the fact that Home Rule, voted by the Commons in 1914, had been suspended until the end of the war. The leaders of the insurrection received support from Germany and seized the General Post Office and other buildings in the centre of the city. The rebellion was repressed and 15 of the leaders executed. The Irish Republican party Sinn Féin (an Irish name meaning ourselves alone'), which was fighting for the reunification of Ireland, began to grow in popularity exploiting the fear the Irish had that military conscription might extend to Ireland.

#### A war of attrition

In May 1915 a German submarine sank the British passenger liner Lusitania and more than a thousand people died, including 128 Americans. The US President Thomas Woodrow Wilson (1913-21) sent diplomatic protests to Germany. In the same month Italy joined France and Britain, and the German Zeppelin airship carried out the first aerial bombing of London.
The bloodiest battle in British history took place on the Somme, in northern France, in July 1916. The Somme was a perfect example of the war of attrition, where huge battles were fought not to win strategic objectives or seize resources, but to kill soldiers and wear down the enemy. Soldiers retreated into trenches behind barbed wire; machine guns, poison gas, tanks and aircraft were used. The Germans also relied on submarines, called U-boats, to fight the war at sea. These submarines were effective in sinking warships and the merchant ships carrying important supplies from the USA. Life in the trenches was very stressful because of mud, lack of hygiene, boredom and fear of gas. So the soldiers relieved the stress means of superstition, religion, poetry, letters and drink. 'Shell shock was the term used by doctors to allude to the psychological effect of shell explosions, blamed for the frequent cases of psychological disorders among soldiers. The horror of trench life was recalled by the War Poets. Domestic and international stress reached its climax in the late 1917 and early 1918: in July 1917 George V changed the name of the British royal family from the German Saxe-Coburg-Gotha into the British Windsor; the Bolsheviks seized power in Russia and the Italian army collapsed at the Battle of Caporetto in October 1917. The Austrians had mass surrenders and desertions, Germany was starving. The United States joined the war in April 1917 on Britain's side.

#### The end of the war

In September 1918 British artillery began dropping shells on the Hindenburg Line, a series of German trenches believed to be impenetrable, while tanks and infantry attacked on the ground. By October the Germans were retreating along the Western Front. Warfare cost the Allies and the Germans about 260,000 casualties respectively. On 4th October 1918 Germany asked President Woodrow Wilson for an armistice which would bring about German withdrawal from occupied territory and allow national self-determination, but included no punishment for the country Britain and France agreed for fear that American power might increase if war continued. On 11th November, at 11 o'clock, the guns fell silent and the day has forever been commemorated as Armistice Day. It was also called 'Remembrance Day' or Poppy Day as, once the war was over, the poppy was one of the only plants to grow on the battlefields. The peace treaty was signed at Versailles in 1919 by the Allied powers. It stipulated the Allied occupation of the Rhineland, unilateral disarmament and heavy financial reparation of 'war guilt for Germany. President Woodrow Wilson proposed 'Fourteen Points' to work out the peace treaty and prevent future wars. He presented a plan to set up the League of Nations. This was to be an international organisation, with its headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, and was to act as a forum for resolving international disputes. However, it proved very difficult to create, and Wilson left office without managing to convince the USA to join. The League of Nations was the forerunner of the United Nations.
