# 25 mag 2021 - Ulysses

Ulysses is made up of 18 episodes, which are meant to reproduce similar episodes in Homer's text. The order in which these episodes are arranged is different from the classical text. Joyce wanted to demonstrate that the problems and the conflicts faced by modern man are the same problems and conflicts faced by men in classical times. 

The difference is that the modern man is an anti-hero, cannot rely on the kindness of God; 
it is exactly this ordinariness that made Leopold Bloom such a vital character: he is much more vital than Homer's Ulysses. Leopold Bloom, who stands for every man, contains a death and a vitality that no classical hero posseses.

Ulysses represents an high point of modernism, and this novel is full of examples of **interior monologue**. In this novel the reader follows the internal voyages of the character's mind, so the reader swims in the sea of thoughts and feelings of the characters. Joyce is brilliant in reproducing the workings of the mind. He adopt a very difficult language, since there is no punctuation, there are no connectors, the syntax is disjointed; there are often missing elements in a sentence. Reading Ulysses is like wearing earphones which are plugged into someone's brain.

An other reason for its complexity is the presence of different quotations or allusions to the whole of western literature and culture. This is a feature that we also found in Eliot. There's plenty of allusion, quotations, that refers to western literature and culture, that makes the text very complex. As we saw in Eliot there can be different levels of reading, according to how many references the reader is able to notice.
This novel is a sort of enciclopedic novel for its many allusions and quotations. This novel has been defined by some a "telephone directory" [guida telefonica] because many critics found that this novel could be read from the beginning to its end, but also from its and to the beginning; there is no logical linear sequence. 

It is a very complex novel, in which we find one of Joyce's best example of literary technique.

## *Extract*
TODO includere estratto

It is taken from Molly Bloom famous monologue which ends Ulysses. This is a **direct interior monologue** (in the indirect interior monologue there is the guide of a narrator). There is no a narrator, and so it is more difficult to read. The thoughts are directly presented as they come in a character's mind.

Molly is at home, in bed, and she start thinking about her youth, she recalls the first encounter whit Leopold Bloom, and then the extracts end with her memory of Leopold Bloom marriage proposal.
The final words are
> Yes, I will, Yes
which refers to the marriage proposal

There are no signs of punctuation. It is difficult to go trough molly's thougts, since we don't know much about her past life, and so she jumps to one memory to one other, and then she thinks about the future; there is a difference of temporal planes.
Joyce basically doesn't select material on an estetic ground, but he preserves all the rubbish that passes through a character's mind.