# 20 mag 2021 - The Dead

It is an acute analysis of Dublin's life. There are fifteen stories in this collection, the settin is Dublin because it is the center of paralysis.

All the protagonists of this story experience this sense of paralyses, because they are all tied to their antiquated social and cultural tradition. They are also inhibited by repressive moral codes 

The Dead is the last story, and it is the climax of this feeling of stagnation that rounds trhough all the stories, that pervades all the stories.

Stilistically speaking Dubliners is still traditional, and it is characterized by a strong descriptive realism. It also includes some more innovative elements that will characterize his later production.
These innovative elements are
- absence of a moralizing narrator
- no presence of a onniscent narrator
- the stories are told trough the character's perspective, we follow their thoughts
- the story is often interspersed with moments of insights that Joyce calls ephipanies

In the final story, _the Dead_, Joyce goes beyond the earlier stories, because he produces a more compassionate view of the characters, there is a more intimate study of the characters and he moves away from the descriptive realism and from the objective presentation that characterize the rest of the book. This descriptive realism was the dominant approach in the rest of the book. In this last story, he partly abandons it, and he move towars a more intimate study of his characters.

In _the Dead_ we also find one of his first fully realized example of the interior monologue: it is used to reproduce the stream of consciousness that takes place in a persons mind.

_The Dead_ can be divided into two different sections:
- in the first section the protagonist, Gabriel Conroy, is at a dinner party
- in the second section we find a sort of musical coda, which contains the protagonist's reflections and meditation on what happened at the pary.

## First section

The protagonist has two aunts, Julia and Kate Mokran, they are two elderly unmarried women, and they have the tradition of organizing a party every year during the christmas holidays, in which they invite all their family members and their friends, and so this is the occasion.

This party is held shortly after christmas, and this gathering is an occasion for Joyce to make a portrait of Dublin: there are people of different generation, there are people with different religion believes, and there are also different political simpaties. He makes a portrait of Dublin as the heart of modern Ireland, but more generally speaking Dublin becomes the heart of modern society.
He presents a microcosm that stands for modern society.

The high point of this party is a speech that Gabriel makes in front of everybody, and he is applauded by everyone, and so he feels exaltant, he is filled with self-love and self-satisfaction, he feels important.
The reals central event of the party is Gretta's Ephipany; she is Gabriel's wife, and she is also present at the party: during the party she hears an old irish song, and when she ears it she is on the stairs, and so she's paralysed on these stairs, as if time stopped for her, because that song reminded her of Michael Furey, her first love, and probably her only true love; she steps out of time and she goes back to her youth.

During Gretta's auditory ephipany there is also Gabriel's visual ephipany, that happen at the same time.
She stops on the stairs, and Gabriel looks at his life from the bottom of the stairs: she is like the figure of a painting, and this is probably the first time that he took some time to look at his wife in her whole appearance.

After the party they go to a near by Hotel, and during this walk Gabriel feels phisical desire for his wife, he remembers their courtship and their premarried life and all the happy moments of their married life. He is fillled with physical desire for his wife.

As soon as they reach the intimacy of the hotel bedroom, to his great astonishment, he discovers that his wife is crying, because she is thinking about Michael Feury. 
She explains him that during the party she had heard an old irish song, that had took her to her youth, and she tells him about Michael Furey, a boy who died for her when he was only seventeen; actually he died of pneumonia, but he contracted pneumonia after spending long ours in front of her house when it was snowing.

After this painfull memory Gretta falls asleep, because she is overwhelmed by the intensity of these past feelings. 

## Second section

Here there are Gabriel's thoughts when his wife is sleeping. The setting loses any temporal connotation, since in Gabriel's thoughts past, present and future intermingle. He looks at his wife and he realizes that she is no longer the pretty girl that Micheal Furey had fallen in love with, he thinks about Michael Furey, he thinks about the past, and he realies that he played a poor part in his wife's life: their relationship was emotional insipide in comparison to her love affair with Micheal Furey

He understand that it is better to live a short life, but full of emotions and passion, than living a longer life which is passionless. Living a life in which everything fades away and there is nothing memorable to look back on.

He thinks about the future, because he imagines the funeral of one of his aunts. He makes some other reflection on death.

He feels the noise of the snow which is tapping on the windopane. He looks out of the window and the story ends with him looking at the snow which is covering the city of Dublin.