# 21 mag 2021

## T: *The Dead*
- ==p. 257==

When Gabriel looked at the snow he experienced another epiphany. He meditates upon the intimate insignificance of even the most intense moments of life. The snow becomes a powerful symbol which can be interpretive in many different ways:

- **purity**: because of its colour (white) it can be seen as a symbol of purity; it seems to clear everything;
- **death**: it can also be read as a symbol of death. The snow falls upon the living and the dead, making everything indistinguishable It bares everything and the city becomes a cemetery; death is like a great leveller because when we died, we are all equal and it does not matter if someone has been poor or rich during life; the snow dissolves itself when it melts, another link to death;
- **paralysis**: it can be also seen as a symbol of paralysis because everything seems dead; the reader has the impression that the living characters are actually spiritually dead, to the point that they are more dead than Michael Fury, he’s physically dead, but alive in Greta’s heart.

It is in Joyce symbolism that we see it’s experimentation with the language. In his symbolism he experiments, it’s very innovative, whereas his realism is traditional.
We have the symbolism of the snow and than the symbolism of the names of the characters. In the extract, Gabriel and Michael are highlighted in pink. Gabriel is the name of the angel that plays the trumpet of the last judgment, Michael is also the name of an angel.
At a certain point he thinks about going “westward”, which is also a symbol. “going west word” is an idiomatic expression, it means dying. This expression makes us identify Gabriel with Joyce himself, we have the idea that Gabriel represents what Joyce would have become if he hadn’t left Ireland.

- The expressions underlined in blu, presents some examples of Joyce realistic descriptions.
- Those highlighted in light blue includes Gabriel thoughts expressed in past continuous or past simple, and represents the present of the narration.
- Those highlighted in green, includes Gabriel thoughts expressed in past perfect, this represent the past of the narration.
- Highlighted in yellow are those Gabriel’s expressions referred to the future of the narration.
- The grey arrows are lines that includes a passage from an outer reality to an inner reality.
- The red dots indicate moments of epiphany

## *Ulysses*

It was published in 1922 and this work marks a turning point in his career because his career can be generally divided in 2 different periods:

- **First period** is characterised by a traditional approach and the most significant work of the first period is *Dubliners*; we can also includes *A portrait of the artist of a Young man*. The plot is still quite linear and the syntax is still quite logical. The language reflects everyday language.
- **Second period**: it begins with *Ulysses* because it is a linguistic experiment. It was banned in Britain and American when it was published because it was considered too complex and incomprehensible. After *Ulysses* he dedicated his life to an even more complex work, *Finnegans Wakes* because he wanted to keep the literary historians busy for the next 400 years.

What changes between the periods is only the language because the setting is Dublin for both of them.

*Ulysses* takes as its material a single day, 16th June 1904,, the protagonists are two men and a woman, and the work is divided into three different sections, each one is dedicated to one of the central characters:

- **first section**: it is dedicated to Stephen Dedalus. “Steven” is the name of the first Christian martyr because we was accused of preaching a new religion. Also Stephen is treating badly by the Irish because tried to have a different approach to life. He is a craftsman (artigiano). Stephen has intellectual ambitions.
- **second section**: is about Leopold Bloom and he is an advertisement sales man. This morning he steps out of his house and starts wandering through the streets of Dublin and then he bumps into Stephen. They went into a brothel where they got drunk. Stephen had been evicted (sfrattato) from his house, so Leopold offers to take him into his house: so Leopold become a sort of protector father for Stephen. Leopold Bloom stands for Ulysses and Stephen stands for Telemachus.
- **third section**: it is focused on Leopold wife Molly Bloom which stands for Penelope (Ulysse’s wife). The difference is that Penelope was faithful to her husband while Leopold wife isn’t. While Leopold walks around the streets of Dublin, she spends time with another man.

This works wants to reproduce the classical one (made by Homer) and in fact Joyce Ulysses is structured in 18 episodes which parallel the same episodes that we find in Homers’ Odyssey even though in Joyce’s works we do not find the same order of Homer’s work.
This parallelism has got comic and parodic connotation because Joyce wants to show that modern men faces the same tragedies, triumphs, conflicts and problems of the classical heroes; the difference is that a modern man is no hero and he cannot rely on the God to help him through his struggles.