# 25 mag 2021 - *To the Lighthouse*

She published it in 1927, and the most important element of this novel is the treatment of time. The novel is divided into three sections:
- the window
- time passes
- the Lighthouse

**The first section** (which is the longest one) recounts the events of a single day. We find the **Ramsays**, that are a family, and they are spending their holidays in their summerhouse in the Hebrides (a group of islands near Scottland). One of the children wants to go to the Lighthouse, but because of bad wheather condition the trip has to be postponed.
It is the longest one because time is dilating because Virginia Woolf was mainly interested in the character's interior time.

The **second section** recounts with brevity the events that take place in a span of 10 years. We are informed that Ms Ramsay died, her eldest daughter also died, and one of the sons died as a victim of WWI, and this is an occasion to make a portrait of Britain in the world years, describing the athmospere of devastation boughts by the Great War.

The **third section** is based on the events of a single days. In the final section the family returns to the house in the Hebrides, Mr Ramsay finally goes to the Lighthouse with James, the child that 10 years earlier was so excited about this escursion. We find some guests that where present in the first section, such as Lily Briscoe, a painter; in the first section she started to make a portrait of Ms Ramsay and her children, and ten years later she finished the portrait.

The plot is not really relevant, the most important theme is the treatment of time, since Virginia Woolf delate and compress the time.

**Virginia Woolf symbolism**: the main symbol is the **lighthouse**, which is the alternation of light and darkness: this alternation is evident from the structure of the novel, which is A-B-A: the first section represents the long lightbeams of the lighthouse, then after this beams of light there is a pause of darkness, represented by the second section, the war years, and after this short pause we have again a flash of light, which is represented by the third section.
This alternation is also evidente in an episode that we find in the first section: Ms Ramsay has to tell her son James that they can't go to the Lighthouse. She starts thinking about the words that she can use to explain him that the trip had to be postponed. As she thinks about it she defines herself as a core of darkness, which represents her inner-self, which is different from her public self.

This novel is about the difficulty and the complexity of human relationship, because we are all thorned between our innerself and our publicself.

An other symbol is the **sea**, which is omnipresent, it is the background for every scene. The incessant movement of the waves represents the movement of Woolf's prose. Her prose was characterized by shifting different temporal places, the use of interior monologue-