# 14 mag 2021 - Samuel Beckett
- ==p. 375==

He was a novelist, a playwright and a critic, but it is as a playwright that he is most widely known.

He was born in Dublin in 1906 from a middlle class family, and he studied modern literature, and he specialized in French and Italian. After his studies at university he went to Paris to work as a lecturer of english. He travelled through Germany, French, Ireland, England, and then he finally settled in France. 

He published his early novels in english, but then he turned to french, and it is in French that he first published his masterpieces: *En attendant Godot* (1952, published in english in 1955 as *Waiting for Godot*) and *Fin de Partie* (1957, published in english in 1958 as *End Game*). He became famous for the first play. 
He first published these plays in France and then he translated it in english.

In 1969 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for literatura, and he finally died in 1989.

Some critics consider Beckett as the last modernist. He is somewhere in between modernism and present age.

## The theatre of the absurd

He is considered the main representative of the **theatre of the absurd**. With this expression we refer to a group of dramatist who wrote between the 1950s and 1960s, and the main feature of these dramatist is that they gave expression to feelings of loss, meaninglessness, confusion; they gave expression to that sense of nullity and absurdity.

The atomic bomb on Iroshima and Nagasaki, as well as the nazi death-camps had shocked the whole world, to the point that a german theorist, Adorno, said that art was no longer possible after Aushwitz.
Samuel Beckett answered with his literary production and with his theatre of absurd, challenging Adorndo point of view.

Samuel Beckett is considered the main representative of the theatre of the absurd, with his plays he confronted men with this absence of meanings, which emerges after WWII.
He presented man trapped in everyday living, with the need of finding meanings and purposes from the past which however are no longer valid for the present. He portrayed this sense of nullity, this idea of non existance, of meaninglessness, and he express this nostalgia for past meanings which were no longer usefull after what had happened.

## *Waiting fot Godot*

This play is subtitled "a tragicomedy in two acts".
This play has both comic and tragic elements, there are some ironic connotation, as well as some terrifing implication. It is divided into two acts, but both are very similar, because there is no real plot. What happens in the first act, happens also in the second one, with some differences.

The first words of this play are "nothing to be done", and in fact it happens nothing in this play.
We find two characters, **Vladimir** and **Estragon**, they two tramps, they stand by a tree in a road, and they talk with each other while they wait for a misterious figure, Mr. Godot. They fill time with their meaningless discussion, they play absurd wordgames.
While they are waiting two others characters appear, Pozzo and Lucky.
At the end of the first act, an unnamed boy appears on stage, saying that Godot's arrival is postponed, because he will arrive the next day.
Thi is exactly what happened also in the second act, with the difference that Pozzo and this unnamed boy do not remember about the previous day.

In this play there is no action, it's the situation that take precedence over action. Samuel Beckett wanted to show the absence of purposes and meaning in life.
The structure is almost simmetrical, circular because there is no beginning and there is no end. The audience had the impression that this repetition will continue to go on endlessly.

In this play we find five characters: Vladimr and Estragon, Pozzo and Lucky and this unnamed boy. Four of these five character can be grouped in complementary couples: 
- Vladimir and Estragon are mutually dependend, one cannot exist without the other; they do not have the same personality, they are complementary: Vladimir is the most practical, rational and intellectual, whereas Estragon is more childish, and he tends to fall asleep and to dream, while Vladimir is speaking: they are mutually dependent.
- Lucky and Pozzo: Pozzo is the master, and Lucky is the slave: When they appear on stage, Pozzo is drawing Lucky with a rope, so they are mutually dependend in the same way Vladimir and Estragon are. 

Pozzo cannot remember anything about the previous day, whereas Lucky can, and so we can make an other distinction among these characters:
- Vladimir and Lucky, as they stand for the intellect
- Estragon and Pozzo, as they stand for the body

In this play Beckett was also able to show the duality between mind and body.

We don't know much about the unnamed boy and about the others characters: in this play there is little plot and also little charactarization.

There is also Godot, who never appears: the tramps perceive that Godot might give meaning to their life, but they also fear him.
Critics have discussed about the real identity of Godot: Beckett said that not even him knew who Godot was. Critics said that Godot might represents God. 

Actually this play ends with the words
> Let's Go.

Even if we don't see Godot in stage, ironically in the end of the stage it appears, since "go." is the same as "go dot". 
Godot can also be paralled with the idea of ending, if he had appeared on the stage the play would have found its end, but this play is centered on repetition.