# 18 mag 2021 - Samuel Becket

## *Mr. Godot*

In spite of the reiterated theme of nonexistance, the characters actually go on existing; it seems that they are trapped on stage, they would like to leave the stage but they are compelled to stay.
They are compelled to stay because of the existance of the play itself, which is to be performed. 

For Becket not only life and society are absurd, but we also see how art becomes part of the tirany of existance: art like life is an act of creation and continuance, but art can no longer provide us with meanings capable of filling our interior void; art is no longer capable of providing us a solution for our sense of misery.
His position is different from that of Joyce and Eliot, who saw art as a pseudo-religion form of salvation.

### Themes

The most important theme is the **theme of waiting**: all the play revolves around this continuosly postponed meeting with mister Godot: this is the first theme: the individual trapped in a constant process of waiting.

**Inability to act** through the representation of action without progression: there is no action, no progression, its the situation that rules the play.

**Incomunicability** between human beings: Vladimir and Estragon go on talking, but they talk about nothing: they aren't really communicating.

**Sterility of the world**: this is evident from the sterile connotation of their dialogues, but also this is an aspect that we can infer from the absence of women and also from the setting, which is minimalistic (there is only a solitary tree)

**Characters' lack of memory**

### T: *Waiting*
- ==p. 377==

This extract is taken from the end of the play, from the second act. 

The setting is always the same, these two tramps stand by the side of a road, next to this solitary tree, the setting is minimalistic as the plot is, but there is no real sense of place: it could be any road or any tree.

An unnamed boy appears, bringing the news that Mr. Godot won't come that evening, maybe he will come the following name; this boy delivers the message to Vladimir; Estragon is actually sleeping.
Some traits emerges and distinguish them, even though there is little characterization.

They decided not to go anywhere, and they decided to stay there in order to keep on waiting for Godot arrival. They consider the possibility of commiting suicide, but they abandon this idea since they do not have the physical instruments to kill themselves, they consider the possibility of using Estragon belt, which is too short and not strong enough.
There is an other reason that prevent them to taking their life again: death would signify a permanent separation between the two: they are mutually dependent, and they cannot part, they cannot separate: they both know that each one depends on the other, because it is the other that gives the sense that they exist. So there is a relationship of interdependence and also of affection apparently.

But this affection is only apparent: they keep talking to each other, but we have the idea that they are both immersed in their own universe, and they do not really try to communicate in what their universe consists

The language is simple, quit informal and essential. The dialogue is made up of a lot of ready made phrases, and it also made up of a lot of silences and pauses, which are meant to interupt the flow of conversation. There are a lot of repetition which are meant to reproduce the repetitiveness of life.
Words often have a double sense, a comic sense and a tragic sense. There is a peculiarity: this play is not only characterized by the combination of comic elements on the one hand and tragic elements on the other hand: this play is characterized by events and words that have both comic and tragic meaning simultanuosly.

The final message that we find in this play is that nothing can be done by contemporary men except for waiting. Becket is trying to make the audience feel and share this process of waiting, and then he want to make the audience experience the quality of inaction.

## Different types of theatre

It evidente that **Becket** moved away from the traditional features of drama.

**Oscar Wilde**'s plots are based on the idea of social climbing, while in **Shaw**'s plots there is always a social theme (the theatre was conceived as a tool to improve society). In **Becket** there is no plot.

**Wilde**'s setting is London High Society; **Shaw** uses London as a setting of his plays, but not only the upper classes; in **Becket** the setting is minimalistic and symbolic

The characters are outsiders for **Becket**, while in **Shaw** characters are mouthpeaces of the playwrights idea: he wanted to bring social issues to light, in order to improve society. In **Wilde** the characters are [stereotipati], since they are meant to entertain and satirize about the Victorian society.

**Wilde**'s aim was to entertain and satirize about the Victorian society without letting the audience thinking, **Shaw**'s aim was to improve society, he uses is theatre as a weapon and so he wasn't really appreciated since he attacked to harsh the society. **Beckett**'s aim was to highlight the lack of communication and the absence of meaning and purposes of contemporary society.