# 11 mag 2021 - Huxley

He finally died in 1963, the same day that the american president Kennedy was assasinated, and so his death passed almost unnoticed.
It is as a novelist that he is mostly remembered, with his most succesful novel is *Brave new world*. There is doubt whether we can consider him a novelist in the real sense of the term: critics agree that Huxley is not novelist in the common sense of the word, they prefer to consider him a novelist of ideas.

**Novels of ideas** are novel based on a certain idea, so they revolve around the develpment of a certain point of view. 

## *Brave new world*

In *Brave new world* he develop the idea of the danger of **scientific progress**: he wanted to denounce the danger of the scientific progress. It is a science fiction novel in which Huxley portray an alarming picture of a future society: he describes a futuristic society in which technological and scientific progress have taken control over individual life.

*Brave new world* is a quotation from Shakespeare's play *The Tempest*: these words are pronounced by Miranda, the Daughter of Prospero. Since she was a child she lived alone, exiled on an island with her father: the first time she was other people she exclame: "Oh brave new world, that has such people in it".
Shakespeare is the greates english writer, he is the symbol of art, so probably with this title Huxley wanted to remind the reader about the fact that art is denied in the futuristic society he describes.

In this society technology and scientific progress had reach their utmost, everything is well structured and well organized, but people have lost their most authentic qualities, and they acts like puppets. 

The story is set in the seventh century AF (After Ford, the inventor of the modern factory system and of its essential organizational principle: the assembly line; he is regarded as a sort of deity in this story). Society is well structured, and it is based on stability, which is achieved through a specific cast classification system. It is a hierarchical society. 
- At the top we find the **alphas** and **betas**, they are the intellectual and the administrators, they are the most intelligent and the most physically perfect men and women.
- Below there are the **gammas**.
- At the bottom there are **deltas** and **epsilons**: they represents the manual workers, almost slaves. They accomplish the humbless tasks, and this is their role

People are born artificially, through artificial process: babies are produced and drawn in bottles, and even before they came into existance, they are brainwashed to conform to the cast they are predetermed to. They must be happy with their cast, they must like it and accept it. From the very beginning, even before being actually born, they are manipulated so that they are happy with their predetermined role.

The second key concept is **happiness**: everyone must be happy. Happiness is achieved through the consumption of a drug called **soma**, it is a sort of allucinogenon, that produces feelings of wellbeing, happiness, sexual promiscuity. Sex is seen as a form of mindless entertainment.

Art, literature, phylosophy are prohibitted in this society, since it might ruin the conditioning of every person.

The protagonist is **Bernard Marx**, an alpha-plus speciment, but he is dissatisfied with this antiseptic world, so one day he decides to visit a reservation in New Mexico. A reservation is a place, that is kept as the world was before scientific progress. Here he meets a savage, called John, and he decides to take John with him in London (which is the setting in place).

In London **John** is firstly fascinated by the world, but then he realises that it is not an happy world, so he rebels against its lack of freedom, passion, individuality, privacy, conformity.
He decides to live in an abandoned light house, he stats to lead a sort of Robinson Crusoe like existence, but he soon turnes into a sort of attraction to turists, and so he finally commits suicide: he understands that there is no possibility of being happy. There is no way out from this world.

### Themes

**Fordism**: with this reference of a mass production system that in this case is not applied to cars but to human beings: Henry Ford is a deity, who splits time; he is regarded as the most important person in the world, for his invenction of assembly line. Fordism replaced religion.

**Progress**, and in particular the effects of the scientific progress on the individual; tipically progress is regarded as something positive, but in this case Huxley emphasises the negative consequences related to an extreme belief in scientific progress.

**Technology**: Huxley wants to highlight the dangers of our worship for technology to the decadence of art, literature, phylosophy; technology is became the main value of the society.

**Totalitarianism**: this is a society characterized by an all-powerful state. It's similar to *1984* by Orwell. Orwell focused on a form of political totalitarianism, whil Huxley was more concerned with a technological totalitarianism.