# 13 mag 2021 - Aldous Huxley

## *Brave new world*

### Features

It is characterized by a mixture of different literary genres: fable, science fiction, philosophical essay.

Its language varies from the clinically scientific to the satirical. Huxley's narrator often introduces veiled criticism of the world he is describing through particular comments or choice of a phrase.
The language varies in this novel. 

An other feature is that we can consider it a **prophetic book**: it is prophetic both in the long and in the short term.
On a short perspective, *Brave New World* anticipated the nazi policy of producing an arian master race, devoid of inferior individual. This arian master race was devoid of inferior individual.
In a long term, this novel anticipated contemporary biological manipulation. It anticipated the possibility of human cloning.

It is both an **utopian** and a **dystopian** novel. This society is a perfect society, where everything is perfectly organized, based on happiness. This happiness is possibile as long as no one questions the pillars on which this society is built, and that's why it is actually dystopian.

**Mental conditioning** is not invented by Huxley, but he took inspiration from the studies of a behavioural psychologists, Ivan Pavlov, who carried out experiments mainly on dogs; he wanted to condition the behaviour of dogs, through a system of punishment and rewards; he demonstrated how it is possible to condition someone's behaviour through this system.
Huxley showed how such research might be applied for dobious ends.

### T: *An unforgettable lesson*
- file su Classroom

The exstract is taken from the second chapter, and the setting is a scientific lab; there is the director of the center, and he is with some students, because he wants to show them the process of mental conditioning used with babies belonging to the lower casts.

The director tells the nurs to put the babies on the floor, where there are roses and books with bright images, that were meant to attract the babies. At the beginning they are free to crawl. 
At a certain point the director gives a signal, the nurse presses a lever, and then the room is filled with the sound of an explosion. The children receive mild elettic shocks. 
After this the children start screaming and crying, their bodies moves spasmodically.

They want these babies to develop a feeling of hatery towards nature and books-
If they loved nature, they probably want to be happy and spending their day in nature, but since they are supposed to work they have to hate nature.
If people read, they might develop dangerous thoughts that might decondition their reflexes.

Students are lost in admiration. No one questions the logic behind this experiment, because everyone is brainwashed from their birth